So we can return to our example we
showed in the introductory chapter,
where we had this add function
that takes two arguments in.
Now, we are in the context
of a TypeScript file.
And TypeScript is not super happy
that we have these things and
that they're not typed.
So we're going to give those types here.
You can do the same technique here.
So we're adding colon number and
colon number, and
GitHub code pilot is trying to help
me out here, and add another number.
So this represents the return value here.
It's a lot more syntax, but
you'll get used to it, meaning,
you're gonna see colons all over
the place and it gets a little odd.
If you're used to seeing parentheses and
then the open brace right after it,
like it's a little noisy.
But now we can see a is a number,
b is a number, and we return to number.
And if we just change this,
This will type, check.
So here,
let's see what the type error is here.
So previously, before we had this
return type here, we can go back.
You see that we were able to get
this result, which is an any, and
we were able to pass this in.
Maybe some of you didn't even notice,
I didn't notice, it just now.
We pass this in as the argument
to a promise constructor.
What should we be passing
to a promise constructor?
In general, what type of value?
>> Callback function?
>> It's a callback, it's a function.
But because this is an any,
TypeScript isn't warning us that
there's problem here, right?
You have to spot this.
This is part of the benefit
of using TypeScript, right?
So if we go back and we add these back in,
now this is starting to
come to our attention.
So hopefully some of you in the chat and
some of you at home who are wondering,
what's the value of adding
TypeScript to your code?
It helps you catch these kinds
of things more reliably.
And even once you adopt the TypeScript,
if you have any's,
these sort of wildcard types
floating around in your code base,
you'll start out that way.
Particularly, if you have a JavaScript
code base and you convert to TypeScript,
you'll incrementally get to stronger and
stronger types.
But these effectively like
untyped values floating around,
they can silently be there waiting,
it's like a bug that's waiting to happen.
And this is part of what TypeScript
helps you catch more easily.
Normally, like if this were
a JavaScript code base,
I mean maybe we have a linter
that's smart enough to catch this.
But if not, you have to wait for
a user to go through this code path and
you better hope you have test coverage
here, where you would see like, okay,
the promise constructor blows up
because it has no callback pass to it.
>> Do you still need
ESLint with TypeScript?
>> Very good question.
ESLint and
TypeScript work really well together.
TypeScript is all about type checking,
right?
It's doing its work whenever an argument
is passed to a function like this.
Remember, we had red squiggles
here when it was this string 4.
So TypeScript is great at catching this.
It's great at catching assignment
errors or things like this up here.
It doesn't really try to do much for
you in terms of code style,
and sort of best practices.
So I look at them almost as like
a low level and a high level concept.
And in fact ESLint rules
that are written to use type
information can be incredibly useful.
So there is a project called
TypeScript dash ESLint,
which I think the TypeScript core team
contribute to do significantly and
it's sort of like more information for
lint rules to use.
And you can start to get really
crisp about the kinds of
problems that you detect.
So don't throw away your linter.
It's even more valuable with TypeScript.
Rod asks a good question.
Doesn't TypeScript infer the return
type of the function to number?
It will, It will.
The fact that we're returning a plus b,
it knows that that's a number,
it'll return a number.
There are pros and cons here.
It's more concise,
if you updated the function,
it would update the return value.
I tend to want to type my function
returns because it represents sort of
an encapsulation boundary, and
it's a contract that I have to live up to.
So for example,
if we have this and I do this.
Okay, so I just added this.
Now, if I didn't have this return type,
and
let's say I was using
this function properly.
Everything seems fine, right?
Let's ignore this promise one.
Seems good, seems good.
But is this good?
What's happening here?
Look at that.
What this means is, it could be
a number and it could be undefined.
So this is a little sneaky
bug waiting to happen here.
So yes, we were able to alter this
function and we could just alternate and
TypeScript automatically updates
this function, the return type, and
it says it could be undefined.
But I would prefer to be very explicit
about what I intend to return
from the function, and
then I can live up to it.
So, let's say, just for a moment,
I'm gonna write one more line of code here
All right, toExponential.
So that is a function,
that's a method available on number.
That's all we need to know.
All right, let's add this line back in.
So I'm gonna get an error, but
I'm getting it kind of late.
This is almost like where you'd expect a
duck-typing error to pop up, where you're
getting right up to the point where you're
reaching for this method and you're trying
to use it, and then TypeScript goes,
oops, this thing could be undefined.
Cuz there's the possibility
that we didn't,
our coin flip didn't
work out in our favor.
I don't like this for one big reason, and
it's really about where
the error shows up.
Let's imagine this file here,
it was in a different JavaScript module,
a different TypeScript module.
I'm gonna see errors at
all the call sites or
all the attempts to use
return values of my function.
When I really wanna see errors here,
I wanna see an error here that's saying,
look, you stated you are gonna return
a number from this function and
not all paths in this function end
up with you returning a number.
And so I think this explicit return
type here ends up bringing errors
closer to the place where you
probably want to make the fix.
You'll see me not put explicit return
types everywhere in this course when I'm
writing code intended to go to production,
I tend to wanna do this, right?
It's a little mini contract that this
function has with the outside world.